Helpful install instructions for dnssec-trigger.

Quick overview
--------------
The software installs several components
* the dnssec-triggerd daemon that does probes, it needs to be started on boot.
* the dnssec-trigger-panel that shows a status icon in the tray. it needs
  to be in the user startup items.  It can be gtk or cocoa.
* some sort of hook script that catches DHCP updates, system specific.
  it can be networkmanager, netconfig, osx or windows.

Before you install you need: gcc, openssl-dev, gtk2-dev, glib-dev and install
unbound (as a server on 127.0.0.1 that starts on boot), and libldns-dev.
On OSX, gtk2 and glib are not needed, but XCode is used for cocoa.

The compile process is ./configure && make, as usual.

There are a bunch of configure options to put files in different locations,
and to change defaults.

If you do not want to install libldns (for some reason) or libcrypto,
you can use --enable-static-exe, and provide --with-ldns=<path to ldns
install or build dir> and --with-ssl=<install ssl dir> options.  It will
statically link with openssl and ldns.

Install (Linux)
---------------
1. Install required libraries and get the dnssec-trigger package.
   On Ubuntu you must install libappindicator-dev, so it builds for Unity GUI.
2. ./configure
   It needs to detect what sort of system you use - to hook into the DHCP
   network updates.  For many linux systems, networkmanager or netconfig.
   Default puts files in /usr/local
3. make
   It could complain about missing libraries here. Install them, back to 2.
4. sudo make install
   Install as root.  Note you can uninstall with make uninstall.
5. sudo dnssec-trigger-control-setup
   This should create the key files that dnssec-trigger uses to communicate
   securely between its components.
6. edit unbound.conf to allow remote-control:
   sudo dnssec-trigger-control-setup -i
   if you want you can edit by hand, we need root anchor and remote-control
7. setup dnssec-triggerd to start on boot.
   some script in /etc/rc.d or so.
   Or you can start it with sudo dnssec-triggerd (just this once).
   The startup script needs to call dnssec-trigger-control submit <ips>
   with a list of nameserver IPs (it may be the empty list), this will
   cause the server to initialise.  It may be possible to call the
   DHCP change hook for this from the startup script.
8. the dnssec-trigger-panel needs to start for users on login.
   to this end a .desktop file is installed in /etc/xdg/autostart for GNOME.
   Or you can start it from the commandline (just this once).

On uninstall you may need to chmod 644 /etc/resolv.conf
so that it becomes writable again.

Install (OSX)
-------------
Same as on Linux, but step 7 and 8 are taken care of by putting plist files
in the LaunchAgents folder.  On OSX prior to 10.5 it puts the user login
start item enabled for you, but make uninstall cannot disable it, you have
to manually perform this from the user-account control panel.  On OSX 10.5
and later, a launchAgent plist item does the job and is installed and
uninstalled for you.

On OSX a cocoa user interface is built instead of GTK, to display the status
icon on the top right of the menu bar.

On OSX resolv.conf is not the main way to set the DNS server, instead it uses
system settings.  It is likely that the settings from DHCP are received via
the same way that the settings are overridden, and that thus in the meantime
a hole exists where insecure servers are used.  To fix this better system
integration would be necessary.

Resolv.conf is written to, just to be sure, on MacOSX.

Test (Demonstration)
--------------------
Since all the DHCP hook does is call dnssec-trigger-control submit <ip list>
and then those caches are probed and configuration is changed, you can use
that to test.  Simply sudo dnssec-trigger-control submit 127.0.0.3.
Assuming there is nothing on that address (usually true), it times out and
you see that the authority servers on the internet are used instead.
If you want to test a failure of the network to allow DNSSEC traffic, you
can use the command sudo dnssec-trigger-control unsafe.  It causes the
daemon to use another couple 127.0.0.x addresses (that should not answer)
and a second later think that DNSSEC does not work at all.  The popup window
should show, if you select insecure, it then uses those 127.0.0.x addresses
which will of course not really answer at all.  It demonstrates the GUI.

